>> Somebody is not payingattention in class. All right. Here we go. >> That's reallylovely, we can see. >> Mine just happens tobe super like- All right. Video and audio. We're backin business. All right. >> Yey. >> So, let's try this again. >> Eight minutes. >> Eight minutes passedbut you know what? Whenever we do Microsoft meetingwe start on time, so why should the webcastbe any different? We'll just keepthe tradition going. >> Hey, I was hereearly for you. >> I know. I know. I knowand it's my fault. All right. Hey, now we're pastthe technical difficulties. Hopefully, everybodyis up and running and I can see the videoand audio correctly. If you have any other problems, drop some note and Chatand we'll see if we need to make someadjustments on our side. Let me pop over tothe presentation. There we go. Welcome to the first monthlyWindows Insider Webcast. It is, at least here inthe States, Friday, April 28. Do quick introductions of everybody who ishere in the room. So first off I'm Jason. You know me asNorthFaceHiker on Twitter. You also see me a lot atthe Windows Insider handle. If you see a little carrot JH behind any ofthose tweets, that is me. You also see me out onthe Pinterest forums. I'm just Jason on there so the same profile picture,you'll know who I am. We'll go aroundthe room real quick for anybody who doesn't know who we are. Next up is Jen. >> Hi. I'm Jen Jennel. Iwork on the Shell team. Probably betterknown as JenMsft. I am not the only Jenat Microsoft but I guess anyone tuning on the streams hopefully knows me. I work on all kinds of stuff. >> Lots of stuff.That is actually true. >> That's a lot. >> Not only is Jen on Twitter. She is also one ofthe awesome folks who post on Reddit all the timeso you can find her there on Reddit as wellin the Windows section. Same handle? Is it JenMSFT? >> Ye, same handle on Reddit. So, if you're on Reddit, youcan find her there as well. Brandon? Brandon isthe blogging coms guys. He's super awesome. I'll letBrandon introduce himself and give a quick story aboutwhat he is wearing today. >> I've got myawesome Xbox onesie. >> How did you comeby this onesie? >> I wanted one. I told him that I would wear forall of our webcasts. >> Sounds good.From the Xbox team? >> Yeah. >> And they shipped ithere from Australia? >> Yep. >> So they're awesome.They're very awesome. >> So now, you haveto keep wearing it. Every time we do a webcast, Brandon is going to be here sitting in his Xboxsponsored onesie. >> I will probably notbe wearing it at Build. >> That's unfortunate. Youshould at least bring it. You can do laps withit around the building. >> You'll see this creepy guywalking around. >> All right. So Brandon, what do youdo around this place? >> I write a lot of the- I put togethera lot of the content. Write us some contentfor a lot of the flights. Help get content out toInsiders feedback com. Whatever you tell me.Whatever Donna tells me to d, mishmash stuff. I tweet. >> Yes. You're definitelyactive on Twitter. >> Yeah, I mean I just- >> All right, Danny? >> I'm Danny and I do-I write stuff mostly. Not like other people I write stuff aboutin TechNet and Docs. In tech community, I try to follow upwherever it is possible. Not on Twitter though butfeel free to reach out to me. Send me any questions youhave and I'll follow up with people within the company. >> Awesome. And then behind the scenes asusual, Reid get over here. Get in the picture. Here we go. >> I'm in the picture now. >> He's Reid. You can see his Twitter handlethere ReidMSFT. Reid is the tech guy. >> I'm the Beam Machine. >> Yeah. He's actually running the Beam Machine right now. >> The Beam Machine. >> He's trying totame the beast. So, yes, let'sjust hop into this. So, quick agenda, thingswe're going to cover today. I want to talk about the webcastthemselves real quick. And then, of course,we are going to talk about the Beam Machine, which we've been hypingfor a couple of weeks now. At least I have beenbecause it's been a great experiencebuilding another machine. It's been a little bitsince I've done one. So, putting this monstrositytogether was quite a task, but it was a whole lot of fun. We'll do a quick feedbackand flighting review. Talk a little bit aboutwhat Builds are out there currently and somereminders about sharing feedback because therehave been some questions come up acrossTwitter as of late. So, I do want to coversome of that stuff. We'll talk aboutthe new dev branch Builds. The Builds thatare coming out and the artist pre-release branch as well as the featuredtwo mobile Builds. We'll talk about Build cadence. Some of the app flighting and then hardwareapp diversity which is a very important topic that I do want to spend a nice chunkof time on later. Of course, we will havean in-depth Q&A session. We'll be answeringquestions along the way. And then at the endI want to do a recap and some requestsfor next session, see what you want to see covered in these monthly webcastas we move forward. So, first things first, let'stalk about the webcasts. Everybody likes a cat pictureson the Internet, right? So here's your first cat picture of the day. We'redoing a webcast. So, when we did the bug bashwebcast back in February, there was a lot of requestsfrom many of you were actually on the streamcurrently and we began doing thison a regular basis. This is your feedback so here we are. Thisis the first one. Taking a little bitto get things put together, workingout the timing, the process, and of course, the actual Beam Machinebuilt to do it. I'm going to head on someof that here in a moment. But one of the questionsthat came up out of the last webcast was,how do we do this? Although it's not super in-depth technically, this ishow it's put together. We do this on a monthly cadence. Video on Demand, that was a request out ofthe last webcast as well so we had our partners overat Beam set our account up. The Video on Demandwill be there. It pops up later in the day afterthe webcast is completed. It will be posted, I think the timelineis two weeks. I will validate thatbut I do believe it will be up fortwo weeks once it posts. And you'll justaccess it directly on the same Beam page thatyou are on currently. And, of course, obviously,I'll cover the quick agenda. We'll have Q&A sessions. And then, in the future,also we're going to do some guest speakersso we will have different partners fromdifferent product areas come in and talk about the thingsthey are working on and their latestrelease cycle, take your questions about current inmarket products andthings that are already in flight as well as taking suggestions for things you want to see in the future. From a technology perspective, you can see the imagesbelow, right? Demo laptop, which is actually my personal service book that I use here at work for today. We broadcast intoan Elgato HD60, which is the stream capturingsoftware which passes that along with the Logitech Rio4K webcam that we now have. Those two things are pluggedinto the Beam Machine. That compiles the stream, throws it up tothe Beam service, and then down tothe Insiders where you are activelywatching it on the web. Gives me nightmaresto see your product. Oh goodness, the mobilequestions start already. Why am I not surprised? Yes, VOD, I know. That was a super big thing that folks wanted to see. All right. So, from a timing perspective,where am I on time? 9:46, awesome. So, let'stalk about the Beam Machine. Okay. So, the Build blog, this link is not active yet. It will redirect you just to the generic WindowsInsiders web page. Brandon is working on actually publishing the post it is because I puttoo many pictures in it. I think there isprobably 20 or 30 photos in their of the variousstages of the Build. You going to see a coupleof them here in a second. But later today, we will tweet out when that isready to go live. So, you can actuallygo through and do read the entire review that I did on the Build on why wechose some of the parts. Well, let's actually talkabout the Beam Machine itself. So, processors. The new AMD Ryzen 7 1800x. Of course, we had to gowith the higher end one, right? Got to do it right away. Three point sixgigahertz eight core, 16 hyper threaded with four gigahertz turbo boost mode RAM is the G skillTrident Z RGB. There's 32 gigs ofRAM in this beast. Based upon the BIOS updates, this is something notcovered in the blog but I will touchon it real quick. When we first putthe machine together, it wouldn't run the RAM speedabove 2133 Megahertz. Fortunately, MSIhas come out with a couple BiOS updatesare actually on 1.3 now. So, 1.1 and 1.2 that gradually enable and we jumpedup and then 1.3 is actually enabledus to get up to 2667 so the RAM on this machineshould top out around 29 33, given that it's DDR43,000 but we will need another BiOS revisionto finish enabling that. MSI is just in essencestepping up in gradual bits to ensure stability so they do not get flooded with a tonne of requests of why are webreaking peoples machines. As noted, the motherboardis a MSI motherboard it is the x370gaming Carbon Pro. Solid State Drive it isthe Samsung EVO 960 M.2 NVME. What's so specialabout this drive? It is the read and write speeds. This will read atnearly three gigabits a second and it will write it nearly one and a halfgigabits a second. This is the exact same drivethat now that our Dev teams are moving over into get anddoing their Build compiles. They are actually gettingthese exact same hard drives because of how fast they are. It is one of the thingsthat we are doing to try and reduceBuild times on our side so it can get out Builds fasterwhich would in turn Build faster flights to all ofyou in the Insider prog. Graphics. So, graphicswas an interesting one. Of course, if youare a hardcore gamer, you are looking atthis video card and be like, "It is not a bad card." You are right itis not a bad card. But it is not the new name 1080 Ti and the questionis probably why. For video streaming, we do not need thelatest and greatest. It is just being candidabout the reason. It is not, video streaming is CPU andRAM intensive which is of course why we builtthe big machine but it is not super heavy froma graphics perspective. So from this end it was moreabout just having a display. We could have gone evena further step down. But hey you know might as well put something goodin the machine right? From a cooling perspective. There was the eternal debatebetween air and liquid cooling off course at least for me itwasn't even a question. Wanted to go liquid cooling. So as part of the Buildwe went with the Corsair H110iliquid cooling set up. Why this particular set up? Given the fast turnaround of how quickly we putthis machine together, one of the reallygood benefits aside from this particular setof having great reviews, was that they already camewith the proper AMD4 bracket for the Ryzen processor. So, we didn't have toorder anything special, we didn't have tocontact Corsair to get the bracket whichyou can actually do if you have one ofthe older Corsair liquid cooling units you can actually reachout to them and they will bragthe bracket for free. So, check their websiteif you're in that situation and decideto Build a Ryzen setup. But for us it wasa out of the box, had everything you neededand it had great reviews. So hey why not goliquid cooling? In the case itselfthere is two fans 240 millimeter fans on the radiator for the liquid cooling setup and then there is three justcase fans to pull air in two in the front one in the rear to pull in and blow overall the components. The case itself has a Thermaltake Core X71it is a full tower. This thing is huge. We probably could havegone with X31 which is it's slightly smaller brotherbut hey why not right? Might as well go big or go home. And one of the thingsthat you won't see in the few photos thatI have in the blog. But we'll actuallygive you a preview photo of it here today is the LED lighting because well the motherboard happensto have a jumper header to plug in LED's too and MSI has their gaming softwarethat you install on the drive machine thatlets you custom control it. Well, I will actually take the webcam here ina minute and actually show you the BeamMachine itself. So, this is whatthe aftermath looks like of puttingthis beast together parts, manuals, boxes trashthrown all over the office. I kind of kickedit all together in a corner so I cantake a picture of it. I know some of you have been in this particularsituation yourselves. It's been a while sinceI have done this at home but I haveto say that having gone through this experience and put this machine together. And having done someof the tests on it, and I'll talk about someof those here in a minute, it makes me want to go home and toss my computer outand Build a new one. I know right. This machineis definitely a workhorse. I will tell you wedid some some testing on my personal beanchannel where in. We had it streaming a full 1080p and I will talk about that here in asecond of why it was a 4K. Streaming a full1080p 60 frames a second just like we are now. While recordingthe stream locally to the hard drive orthe SSD I should say. Which is not a surprise. It is fast enough that it can capture the stream no problem. But we were also doing some additionalsoftware install like the MSI gaming software. We were installingthe Skype desktop client. And wow in essence tripletasking doing all of these CPU usage neverpassed 35 percent. So from thatperspective I think we are pretty good onthe specs of this machine. And we won't have some of the in essence like laggingand glitching. I know that there wassome video upload streaming issues when we did the webcast for the Bugbashback in February. That was in essence because of the machinethat we were using. Like I said we took it toheart the feedback that we got and put it to good use. So probably wonder I know that there's been a few photostweeted out on Twitter. There was one of me building the machine inconjunction with Reed. There was another onethat showed the RAM and the watercooling block up close. But here is a slightlyzoomed out photo of what it actuallylooks like now. Yes. So, you canactually see some of the LED stripsreflecting up on the top. They are in a rectanglepattern all the way around the edge of the casethey run up through the side and actuallydown in the back because in the back side of the case and Iwill actually take. Like I said, I'll takethe webcam here and show you in just a minute but some ofthat, some of the routing, we actually haveit in Rotation mode so where it'sjust a solid blue color inside the case forthis particular photo. We actually have itmatching the RAM where the RAM rainbow stromesbecause it is the RGB RAM. We have the LED's matching in a Similar RGB rotating fashion. So actually know what,here I am just going to take and actually show you the Beam Machinereal quick one second. Let me move this out of the way. See if I can notdestroy the stream. I know this right it is goingto be super blurry alright. And here is the Beam Machine. Oh, it's going to get a bunchof reflection on the glass. There we go. In real time, you can see I know there'slots of light coming in from outside so it is notsuper easy to see, but you can see the reflectionof some of the lights. If you look at the MSI logoin there the gaming pro, you can see it rotating colors the same thingwith the MSI board header. And then, you canactually see the LED's on the backof the motherboard. If I can get it justright there you go. They are rotatingin color as well. The only thing inthe machine that is a static color isthe two fans and that is becausethe fans that come in this Thermaltake casejust happened to be solid blue LED's. One other interesting thingif for this particular case, if you decide to go with a full custom watercooling setup, and I only actuallyopen this real quick, it's got a triple bracket setupso you can mount a full water cooling radiatorsset up right here. As you can see, up a little rubber grommets onthe base and then the back it allows you to doyour cable management what you can see wedid a really good job of tucking inthe wires in there. But you can run your water coolingtubing down through there and you can also takeout your hard drive bracket, which I do not know howclearly that's coming through. But you can remove thatand use that as well. One of the really interestingthings about this Build is the Corsair 750 wattpower supply unit as you can see the fan onit is not even spinning. It is rated E gold. So, it is super efficient. And the interesting thingis even while we were stress testing andburning this machine in, using Prime 95 and then FurMark for the graphics cardthe fan never picked on. It's not that the fan doesnot work because it spins up during boot to dothe self check. But it is so efficientand stays so cool inside this case that I haveonly seen it on one time. So that ladies and gentlemenis the Beam Machine you can actually see the fans from the front.Thermaltake logo. Oh, another cool thing andI actually call this out on the blog for ease of cleaning. It's got a magneticdust cover that you can remove and you canactually see some of the LED'd inthe back and there's the radiator ventingair out through the top of the machineand it just sticks back on the top when youare done back into place. There we go. All right. Now we put the web camback in place. How is that? Hopefully, thatis close to what it was. So there you have it. That is [inaudible]. Yes I am super excitedabout this because you know and this is for the Ds-cam. Oh hey I have seen you ontwitter [inaudible] times, hey what's up men? I am super excited about this number one becauseit is for the insiders, right? We are doingthis for you guys. This awesome machineenables us to put together this great Webcast,stream it to you. This beast better do VR. Donna, we're going to needa different graphics card for that but hey I will justcome and hit you up for budget when it is time. So there is a few questions inhere about the machine [inaudible] cooling solutionsuch an awesome machine. Yes I love this machineit is fantastic. I am looking throughthe comments real quick. >> Asked What Buildis it running? >> What Build is it running? It is on the insider fast rate. So it is running 16 179. This machine isactually going to be the machine thatI will be using in conjunction withBuild releases to make sure that we check and say that hey yes a Build has actually been released properly. So from that perspectivethere is something I want to do because well Donnais on the Webcast right. So say Hi Donna. Oh sheis over [inaudible]. >> If we need more moneylet us get a bake sale on. >> Yeah. We're kindof need a bake sale. So, well GW, I do not even know how topronounce your screen name. It is kind of funnythat you say that because Donna is nothere to tell me no. So, when was the last timeyou saw this thing? >> I don't thinkthey can see it. >> Well they aregoing to see it. When was the last time yousaw the red button in person. Yeah [inaudible] webcast. Yeah it is the red button. So I do not know, you think Donna is going toget mad if I try to release a Build while she is gone? Oh snap is right. Why is that button onthe table. Yeah exactly. Cause I'm going torelease a Build and she is not actually here to stopme so should we do this? Should we actually drop a Build while Donnais gone and cannot tell me no. Oh my goodness. If I get fired next weekfor doing this. Somebody you know, give mea job send me referrals. I am going to needa little something here. Do it. I won't do it. Red Buttons. Okay. Well, I think I have been prettywell tempted into doing this. Brandon should we do it? >> You should do it. >> Do we needa timer, a countdown? >> I don't know. >> I say we do it. >> I think we should do it. >> So with that Icompletely ignored my boss and oh I ignored Jeremiah becausehe thought it is a bad idea. Let's check for new Builds. So I am actually going to since The Beam Machineis on a fast train. My laptop is onself host so let's check and see what isout in the update world. They better be somethingthis [inaudible] better have worked or else it is goingto look terrible for me. Not only did I ignore my Boss. Yes it's going tobe pretty bad if I try to release a Buildand it does not work. >> Meanwhile refreshing. >> Well, keep in linethat it has to go through like once you hit it. It has to go through. >> It doesn't mean thatI am not impatient right? And I'm super excited I just got through talkingabout The Beam Machine. And Not to mentionthe mountain dew that I've been dumping down all morningright. Oh look at that! Would you look at that, 16184 in the House.Anybody else seeing this. Yes. Yes. Oh and somebodyseeing 15208 on mobile. Brandon I think it istime you publish that one. >> I will get thatup very shortly. >> This is fantastic. Yes of course I did. Do you not see the button switch activated. So go check forupdates everybody. Sorry boss yeahit just happened. Yeah. So I know everybody is going to bedownloading the Build. But you got to wait till afterthe webcast to install it. It is probably not fairof me to ask because your probably actuallywatching this on the machine that you'refinding. So maybe it wasn't. >> So it has tobe three machines. >> I know, wow! So maybeit wasn't such a good idea for me to pushthe button but whatever. But like I saidif I get fired you still see my Twitter causeI will get on there and still Chat with you all. Oh my goodness this is fun. I love doing this. So let me shift back and finish talking aboutThe Beam Machine momentarily because I havea trivia question for you. So relating to The Beam Machine. Total download. You've already finished downloadingthat is fantastic. All right. So here isthe trivia question your ready? On the first bootof The Beam Machine, the first full boot. We did a post boot just to make sure that it actuallywould pose to read the ram that all the hardware is installed correctlyright that was the technical first but onthe first actual boot of the beam machine where we had the Windowsinstallation on an ISO. How long did it take to install the creators update RTM Build 15063 from scratch whileon a USB 3.0 drive? I want you to type your answers inthe Chat window please. Oh and a side note, this did include formattingthe Hard drive, creating a partition because well there isa brand new drive and nothing had everbeen on it before. So, 0.5 seconds and that's not quite realisticbut all right. It would be awesome if Windows installed in halfa second so five minutes. Yes Donna is goingto kill me and walder98 yeah it isprobably going to happen when she gets back. Seven minutes, 15 minutes, three minutes,Paul, four minutes, 22 minutes, 17 minutes 11, 13, 16, eight, 34 45, 11. All right, I'llgive another Second for folks thatfinish chiming in. Zero minutes. Yeah I Wish it was zero minutesthat would be great. >> It came pre-installed. >> It came pre-installed. Samsung's not quite therewith their drives yet. Well here we go. So your answer. From power on, all the way through formatting the drivecreating the partition, unpacking it installing the OS, till that first window where it asked you to startentering your credentials and then ask you language and country andthings of that nature. Four minutes and 27 seconds. So those of you thatsaid four minutes to five minutes right on target. Yes, and that was with the RAM running atthe slower speed of only 21, 100 and 33 megahertz. So if we did itagain at this point, now that the RAM is running at a much higher speedand once we actually get the next BiOS revisionthat should fully unlock 29, 100 and 33 megahertz, it would actually be even faster becausethe RAM would be able to push the data backand forth faster. But how hot does it get? Oh okay so that's actuallya really good question. So, Mirro how hotdoes the machine get? So I mentioned earlierthat we did burn in on this machine after we put it together and actuallyhad the OS installed. We did the driver installsto get everything up today. We took the cumulative updates that you've all been receiving before jumping to the new Builds that are coming out inthe RS [inaudible] branch. So it was, what softwaredid we end up using? >> IDA 64. >> So IDA 64 which completelytaxes the CPU right. So all eight cores all 16 hyper threads running at a 100 percent utilization. We left it going fortwo straight hours just siting. Oh yes with FurMark running and burning in the graphics cardat the same time. So this machine wascompletely maxed out. Graphics RAM and CPU, all being 100 percentutilized. Yes it does. My name is Mary and that is another reasonwe have gone for Rizon. On top of their fantasticvideo capabilities. So this CPU completely maxed out everythingin the case maxed out. The CPU capped outtemperature wise at 39 degrees Celsius and the graphics card capped out at58 degrees Celsius. It's liquid coolingsetup is insane. How does it standnext to KDLINK? Comparing Ryzen in the KDLINK. From a in-market perspective, obviously rise and is still on the adoption curve, becauseit's relatively new. I mean, their process has been going on forthe past month or so. The initial feedback. It depends on what you're doing. If you're gaming, it can belike beats up a little bit. Most of the thingsthat I've seen is between five to eight percent. KDLINK has a slight edge. If you're doing likeadvanced video editing, and things that are setup to do multi-threading. The Ryzen actually has an edge on KDLINK from the initial reviewsthat I've seen. It doesn't mean that withfurther updates, BiOS updates, chipset drivers,things like that, it doesn't meanthat the you know, they won't go back and forth. But, It's actually stands its ground and it'sthe newest edge. One of the things though isthis an a core processor. Some of the new KDLINKlike ones are 10 cores. I mean just fromthat perspective, you were trying to compare eight-core machineto a 10-core machine. Obviously, the10-core machine is going to have an advantagepresuming it has the appropriatesupporting hardware of the right motherboard. And then, of course,the turn of RAM to support it on the backside and it can't get four andhalf gigahertz. I don't know. That's one of the thingsthat I actually want to try with this machine. We'll see how it goes. I'm going to overclockthis machine. That's something Ihaven't told Donna. Not only that I'm watching flight todaywithout telling her, I'm going to overclockthis machine. It's going to happen. Any of you out there that happened to beoverclocking fans, you're going to getto see some stats. I'm going to take youthrough that process. I want to do a techwrite up on it. I'll give you a littlebackground on why. My name is more-you're actually, it's pretty close towhat you're saying. The 10 core costsfour times the price. If you look at, hopefully, many are familiar with Newegg. It's a very popular siteto buy computer parts from. The AMD Ryzen 7 1800X, which is the top inmodel right now is $500. It's not cheap by any means, but from a performance and price perspective,it's rock solid. The newest KDLINK processorsthat are 10 cores, you're looking well intothe $1,000 plus grounds. Some of the eight-coreprocessors from Intel are a $1,100 justfor the processor. So, from that perspective, yes there there'sa huge price difference. I mentioned earlier like it was just like withanything else, we're working undera budget, right? I didn't get to go spend $5,000building the bin machine. That would've beennice, but honestly, there was no need to. We wanted to Builda high end but solid enthusiast typemachine that would do exactly what we needed it to do but without just throwingmoney down you know, then throwing money intoa Build that did need to be spent in that fashion. There's been a couplequestions on the cost. The Build was around $1,700. Not cheap, but as I mentioned earlier withsome of the stats that I quoted off on howefficient it is, and that giventhat we were triple tasking it withrecording the stream, broadcasting, andinstalling software, we are only usingabout 30 CPU capacity unless we end up needingto add more RAM later, which I don't foresee given that we have 32 gigs in there, this machine will be futureproof for quite some time. Again, Donna mentionedin the Chat about VR, so we may need to look at the graphics cardagain at some point, but we're a little ways away from that sowe'll see how that goes. Oh yeah, My People. So,I'm actually going to drop my slideshow for a secondbecause, Hi Twitter. >> Do the demo for us. >> what? >> Get it right. >> You can do the demo for us. >> I just want tosay real quick. I installedthis Build previously. So, if you want a quick shortcut becausewhen you install this Build, by default you will seethe people icon, still brackets. I have to end this.Okay,one second. This is operator/presentererror so let me, in slide show, okay. Now, can you seemy desktop? There we go. All right. This iswhat I want you to see. So, as you can see, I am already running 16184. So, I have the Build thathas just got released to you all and it has theMy People feature enable, which is awesome.It's about time. I know this isa big thing kind of creators update. Peoplewere disappointed. They didn't make it, but there were some pushesto get it finished, but we didn't want torelease it unfinished. But here it is. It's like the firstround of it is already showing up and weare what, three buildd in, four buildd in, justthe third rows 170, 176, 179, and 184. Yes, so this isthe fourth Build into the new development cycle and My People featureis already here. When it first installs,you will actually see icon here but it's a quick wayto turn it on or turn it off depending ifyou want it on or not. Just right clickon your task bar, go to task bar settings, and then come down to the bottom and you will see right here, "Show People on the Taskbar". This will let you turn iton and off as you see fit. Flip on and immediatelyyou know there it is. So, I didn't want to spoilin case I accidentally showed my desktop this morning. So, I have not yet set it up, but it's super simple. Click there, you could get started and then walkthrough the set up. But I don't it want to steal your thunder. Jen,do you want to do a demo? >> I want to. >> Yes. I told you weare going to do a demo. I'm totally puttingher on the spot here. I promise you thiswas not planned. >>Who are you friends with? >> I don't know, whoI'm I friends with. >> I don't knowwho are you with. >> Should I click it? >> I mean, I think you should. >> I'm kind of worried. >> Is there a Twitter in here? >> It's just Skypeand mail for now. >> Skype and mail and ofcourse people's connected. Great social network, right. So, first round of this. As you can tell, I have not setthis feature up yet. It's probably my bad. But, you can connect your Skype, you can connect your mail, grab your friends, create contacts. Do you have your set up and obviously you do with them. Youcan send me an email. >> You can do a pull on. >> You can just pickon admin's contact? >> Live demos always rock. Yes, live demos rock. Oh, so these are couple people that workhere Microsoft with me. Mike Monju. He's actually, Mike Monju isactually going to be coming over andworking engineering. He starts over herein a couple of weeks. Did you just see? So, new contact. >> You going to have to show my- >> I don't want toadd any contact, I want to- Okay, go drag this. >> We should cam forspin most the set up, to show what I mean. >> I mean much as I lovewhen there's insiders. >> There you go. Actually,in my contacts list. That's unfortunate. >> Yes. Can you use admin? >> All right. We'll take the longanswer so, June. >> You have to keepa cute picture of a cat, not me. I'm just saying,they're standards. >> What email do you wantme to use for this contact? >> Have a Chat. I have an officestream for that. >> So, we're adding Jane andyou will you'll forgive me. I don't want to broadcast over personal informationacross the web. Hopefully, you understand. No, this is absolutely notscripted as you can tell. Its completely onthe flight here. >> We thought thatthis was scripted. I thought thatyou're very clear. >> In case therewas any question, none of the web castwe;vedone creating to be. >> We are all scrambling. That's not about to delay that. >> And I haven't even tweeted via the Windows insiderTwitter handle, that we releasedto be Build, so. >> We're all sit down type. >> Yes. I need to actuallyget the blacklisting from me so I canpost that real quick. >> Let me- How would youlike me to get that to use? Can I use My People? >> You know with that emailyesterday, Brandon? >> Are we Skype friends? >> I don't know ifwe're Skype friends? I don't know if we areactual Skype Skype friends. >> No. I have youtaken my taskbar. >> Okay. Hold on so let me. >> Do you rememberthat email yesterday, Jason? I was like, "Hey, Jason. Do you want to set upfor a people demo?" And you were like, "Maybe." >> Can you Skypeme link real quick. >> Okay. Okay. All right. So, now Jen set up as a contact. So, now I can closethis window, right? >> Yeah. >> Okay. I'm going toclose this this window. >> See at the "Add Contacts", those are suggestedso they the ones that you communicate with the rest. >> Do you want to share your email when weadded that contact? >> Now we could- >> There we go. >> -go back to the demo. No more secretinformation down there. >> There we go. All right. We had my work Skype account. So now, I have Jen pin down to my taskbaras one of my contacts. She has her own logo, identification of who she is, reach out to people or mail. At this point, wejust click mail and it pops up mail and I canrun drop you mail, correct? >> Yeah. >> So, is it going to show your email address or is it just going to show the to Jen? >> Let me just check. >> Again this is the joyof doing live demos. >> Yes. It definitelyshows my email address >> Well, at this point thisis where you will click mail, and it would bring up your email app andallow you to quit composing email to whatevercontact you have selected. >> You could add, what is it down there? >> Oh, Brandon is sendingme in the Twitter links. So, quickly, you could see. >> The address, yeah. >> Hey, yes. >> Real ad. >> Yes, I can do that. >> Skype. >> So, I need totweet real quick. >> After you're done with that, you want to add me on Skype. >> I was going tosay Skype contact. >> If you add me onSkype as Skype contact, we can try to Skype the integrationbecause that's really cool. >> One O five, two O eight. Let's try this again. Sometimes it doesn'tlike formatting the link out of Skype. So, I have to do it this way. Here we go. Although it's late, here we go. You now have your tweet link from the Windows Insider handle. >> You got a livestreaming there. >> Hey. I can seemyself on Twitter. >> That's funny. >> That's a looping chainand me pressing the button. That's fantastic. Yes.That is awesome.Thank you for doing that. I need to save that Gif. I'm not trying to startthe Gif versus Jif debate. I'm going to skip over that onelike they didn't happen. >> You are using the WindowsInsider Skype in this. >> I could. >> I am just thinkingthat we could become friends in Skype. >> Okay. Yes, I did red button it. ORFLW, yes that happened. This is States. I love this. I love my job like this isone of the best jobs ever. >> What's your? >> My Skype? >> Yes. >> I don't even know. >> It's the one here. >> The one that is online. Do you want my personal oneor my work one. >> I mean whicheverone will make Skype contact should work. >> This is the one thatis on that machine. >> You should cut this. >> There isn't oneon this machine. This is my work machine. So, I don't have that oneinstalled in here. We are going to dosome details as you can tell. So, let me get backto the presentation. >> I can make a totallyfake email account and we can totally communicate. Sorry, look.com. Iam a real person. >> Okay. Here we go. All right. So, we're back tothe presentation. So, let's get backon track here. I do want to save,it is 10:20 here. We have another 40 minutes. So, when I finishcovering the things that I have in thispresentation and then I'm going to save plenty of timefor Q&A because there is probably lots of questionsthat you want to ask. Like I said, this first one, set it up foran hour and a half. If it turns out that we need to go a little longerin the future, if it need to be two hoursthen we can adjust. >> I skippeda meeting for Jason. >> Yes. She skippeda meeting for me. I know Brandon skippedtwo meetings for me. The pre-release stuff aswell as some Comps meeting. >> I did not skipped a meeting. >> Really? >> I clearly did. >> Now you did. >> Do you get a free laptopand you work for Donna Sarkar? >> No. >> If you come towork for Microsoft, if you becomea FTE at Microsoft, the company will provideyou a work laptop to use. In this case, Ihave a Surface book. We already dealt withthis stuff. Let me get through. So quick feedbackand fighting review. These parts are breeze. This won't take melong to zip through. So, one of the questionsthat has come up about filing feedback is the differencebetween mobile and PC. One of the things that wedo want to remind folks of is you cannot file feedback for one device typefrom another device type. So, if you are unable to get updates on your mobile device, you need to filethat feedback from the mobile device that isactually having the issue. You can't file it from your PC. The reason this is the case at least on it's on this side,it's pretty straightforward. When you file that feedbackespecially if you use monitor mode, whichwe highly encourage, which is a reminderhere about that, it grabs logs from the device that you're filingthe feedback from. So, if on your 950, you're havingtrouble downloading an update and youfile it from your PC, it's going to sendus logs from your PC. And if your PC isnot having problems, then we're going to get PC logs that aren't showingany problems. So, do make sure that the correct submission iscoming from the correct device. If you can't filefeedback, right? This is one ofthe questions be like, "I have no network connectivityon my particular device." It's the reason Ican't find feedback or the Feedback Hub won't launchbecause on occasion there's been a glitch withFeedback Hub where it errors out or there wasactually broken in one of the Buildsthat be released unfortunately back thenthe anniversary update. It's been a long time. We haven't madethat mistake again. Ping us on Twitter because if your Feedback Hub is broken. >> I wish I hadan account that exists. >> If your Feedback Hub is broken then we willwork with you as best we can to get the logs that we need manually from your machine. That is one ofthe beautiful things about Feedback Hub isthat it automates that process so thatthere's no back and forth, navigate this path, this log or this other placegot me this log. Especially, froman update perspective, some of the logs are quitelarge especially if there's a lengthy error logfrom a download failure or installationfailure especially from set upinstallation failures. That's the Setuperr.log file that you can findin your machine. Those tend to getpretty big sometimes. So, it's much easier just tohave the feedback pipeline, grab those logs fromyour machine and send them over as opposed tous saying, "Hey, send these all overand zip them up, email them to us going through that lengthyand lengthy process." >> The importance ofusing Feedback Hub on the device is havingthe issue becomes even more important becausethe team is actually working to bring in even more extensive log and logging and other things that could help ustroubleshoot issues. >> For sure. >> So, I don't knowif someone was hired, was made to be familiarwith the tool Field Medic. We are combininga lot of what that provided into the FeedbackHub in the future. So, definitely Feedback Hubreally is critical to sending us feedbackto issues you are having. >> Brandon is spot on this. One of the thingsthat's actually underway between the diagnostics team who sets up the configurations on the back-side ofthe Feedback Hub that says, "Hey, if a user isfiling feedback under a specific feedback path sortof like download updates." There is a teamthat is responsible for configuring which logswe'll get from your machine. So, that team ownsthe Field Medic App for phone which was the previous way ofgetting logs from a device. And some of that functionality hasn't yet been putin the Feedback Hub, but they're actually workingon duplicating it there. So that, hopefully in the future the use ofthe Field Medic App as a separate App becomea thing in the past and you can useyour Feedback Hub to do it all in one place. No more multiple tools. Simplification, that's one ofthe things that I've harped on repeatedly is alwaysabout simplification. That is one of the things thatwe are moving towards with some of these efforts. So, that's a separatething that I'm working on is the easeof getting device IDs. That's a topic for a later date. We'll talk about that onein your future webcast. >> And you have a double spacein this stupid tweet. >> Really? >>Yes. You can seeit. It's right there. >> A double space isafter all a punctuation. >> I know. That's whyI have been trying to fix in your blog post. >> I'm not the only one who use double spacesafter punctuations. >> Yes. >> Or we can have this conversation rightnow on the webcast. >> Yes. How old are you Jason? >> I am too old. I learned how to double space. I learned how totype on a typewriter. They didn't even havecomputers in school. >> Yes, we did. >> I don't know whata typewriter is. I have never seen one. >> Get out of here. So, let me finish this latter real quickso we can keep going. Including details, I mean those of you who thatare old hat to this, of course, includeyour Repro steps, what's going on with the issue,your device information. Don't put your device IDin the feedback. It's a unique identifier that's specific towhatever device you're using. Don't put that in the feedback. But if you're not downloadingupdates on a Surface Pro 3. Say, "Hey, I have got a Surface Pro 3 and I can't get updates." Things like that, kindof generic attributes of the machine that would help uspotentially identify whether it's somethingthat's broadly spread out. Like if you file feedbackand also there's a bunch of people on Dells andHPs and Surfaces. They can't get an update.We have a broad problem. But there have been specific instances suchas like the Surface Pro 3. One Issue that we found that if you hadan SD card inserted, it wouldn't install the Build. So in that regard,it actually was specific to thatparticular machine. And it actually tooksome driver updates to fix. But again, send usall the relevant details that you can think of and then just how you're configured. If you are on fast ring,if you are on slow ring, release preview,anything special about your machine that may. >> No. Stop. I got it. It's fun. >> If I can go back real quick. And it should stop. Anything that's goingto help us diagnose and troubleshoot what may be potentially happeningin your scenario. And of course, don'tforget monitor mode. I showed this offin the last webcast. Monitor mode is super important. It's even more important especially onBuild download failures. So, when you scanfor a Build and it that says wecouldn't do such and such because of error 800 something,something, something. When you use monitor modeto capture that, it captures all the interactionsbetween your machine and the Windows Update Server andthe UUP service in between. So, if we're failing because of targeting,we'll get back. For failure becauseyour particular skew or variant of the OS isn't published, well we'll get that. And that includes like languagevariants and regions and similar language pack issuesthat we've had before where certain language packs weren't published and that preventedyou from getting updates. That actually getscaptured in monitor mode. Again, just a recapon how important it is to use those featureswhen submitting feedback. So, what's out andwhere right now. Well, this technicallyis out-of-date now. So which Builds are where? So, PC 16179, now that'snot right anymore. It's 16184 now. And then on the mobileside of the house, 207 was in the fast ringbut now we have 208. So as you all know, we just launchedthose Builds this morning. And in 15063 isstill available in the slow ring for both PC and mobile as wellas the release preview ring. I didn't putthe DoT Builds there. Some folks havegotten most recent DoT Builds as they'vebeen released. Some folks don't have ityet. But if you're on 15063, you're at least onthe last major core Build. But if you're on that Build, double check for your updatesand make sure you have the most recent cumulativeupdate for your device. Next topic real quick, before we actually end up goingto the Q&A sessions, is the New Dev Branch Builds. So obviously, the creatorsupdate is finished. We have started pushing it out. Is showing up on PCs, slowly starting toroll the phones. So, there's three topics in. I don't have a ton of Build out here just because I wantedto wing it with you all. I can ask Jason to show the Bean machineagain the [inaudible] talent. Yes, of course I'm happy to. I'll do it on the Q&A session. I'll grab the webcam andspin it around again. So go cadence. So, this is one of the things that we get asked aboutall the time, right? So, I'm not evengoing to ask Donna to reply with howmany times she gets tweeted every day if we'rereleasing a new Build. It happens every day,seven days a week. Multiple times a dayfrom tons of Insiders. I know it's all aboutexcitement. Totally get it. So, on a releasecadence perspective, this is notguaranteed timelines, but what we generally shootfor is for Fast Ring Builds. We try to at least once a week. We happen to releasetoday, as you can see. Last week, I think it wason Wednesday or Thursday? >> Friday. >> Was it Friday last week? >> Yeah, it was. >> Please give me a couple, I'll give you at least Builds. Was it Thursday last weekor was it Friday? >> Monday it was. >> Monday. It's wasMonday. We actually released two Buildsfor mobile this week. Monday and then again today. And I know we releasedPCU last week. >> That was Thursday. >> Yes, I think itwas Thursday and the week before,it was Wednesday. So anyway, we try to release once a weekfor Fast Ring Builds. And then, yes,you wrote him out. And then for Slow Ring, right? Because Slow Ring is not yet on the new set of Dev Builds. Obviously, you have the Ringpromotion criteria where it goes from plenary internally to our internalself-built Rings, then it will jump out tothe Insider Fast Ring, and then Insider Slow, and then at the end ofthe release cycle, we want to release preview. In essence, we have a few bugs,we're tackling it fast. That's why it hasn'tgone to Slow yet. Our goal, this is our goal. Internally this iswhat we strive for. We would like toget a new Build to the Slow Ring fasterthan once a month. I know that seems likea long time period, but the Slow Ring really is that safe Ring where we wantto have as few regressions, as few bugs,super stable Builds. So, our goal is to actually go fasterthan that Slow Ring. Want it to betwo to three weeks. But if it ends up extendingout to about a month, hey, it kind of happens, right? Just want to make surethat the quality is there when we actuallyrelease to that Ring. >> Can't wait to getmy mobile to Slow Ring. >> Yeah. And hopefully, my mom, quick shout out to my mom who I think is actuallywatching the webcast. I need to get heron the Slow Ring. So Mom, we're goingto have a Chat. Next on this listis App flooding. Let me make sure I'm not missing any questions here real quick. Tuesday, got a Defenderupdate on Edge. Every single day.Gears are moving now. I'm redeeming myself. Hey,I don't know what I did, but I'm glad to redeem myself. We have a Medium Ringthat is faster than Slow, but slower than Fast. It kind of defeats the produce. >> There is a reason, I mean, there are thingsthat are Slow blocking. >> Yeah. They'reblocking for a reason that we don't want toadd any more Rings. We don't want to addmore complexity to this. You can go Fast if you want, and you can get through a lot of the pain of being on really, really super pre-release Builds. >> Yes. >> And then Slow isfor people that could be like our mothers who we want to test and try out some of the new features that are coming inthe next Windows 10 update. >> Yeah. >> And so, I think that wealready have a good balance, and I'll think thatadding a Middle Ring there create much value. >> I know this is something that's been discussed internally at Linked, right? >> Oh, yeah. >> We've actually talkedabout it several times on, do we have the right numberof Rings, right? Between Fast Forward and theRelease Preview there are three external Rings.Are they enough? And everything that we'veseen between user feedback, broadly, I know this isa different request here, but broadly betweenuser feedback, and then between the datathat we get on the quality of data we're receivingfrom the users who are on the Fast Ringand giving us feedback. And in the same thing again, to use the Slow Ring andthen Release Preview, it seems like we havethe right Build cadence. The thing that we do rightfully get a bit of a flack for is, when we go a longperiod of time, especially in Fastwithout releasing a Build. Fast Ring users want the latest and greatest.And I won't blame you. I mean, I'm on the Fast Ringas well on The Beam Machine. And I'm on CellForce,which is even faster on my actualwork machine. It's all about what kind of bugs do we not want torelease publicly, right? Where are we okay withpotentially sending out? Which is the known issuessection in the blog versus what arethe things we don't actually want toaffect you guys with. So from that perspective, let me jump to App flighting. App flighting was a super hot topic duringthe previous update. And we've got a ton of feedback, and I want to take a moment and say thank you to everyonewho gave us this feedback. During this development cycle, we got a lot of feedback because preview app Builds were being released to the Slow Ringinstead of the Fast Ring. I know there's probably a few either watchingthe webcast are like, yes, I had to switch the Slow Ringto get the Builds, super frustrating,totally acknowledge it. And let me just say this. The plan isn't completelyhammered out yet, but I was sitting inmeetings yesterday on this very topic. We are working through this, and we'll do the right thingfor as Insiders. Fast Ring shouldget the app updates. I mean, that's the purpose of having the Fast Ring, right? To have the latest and greatest the fastest before anybody else. So, to see something skip the Fast Ring andactually show up in Slow, your frustration, I get it. The team gets it.Everybody here who put that in placeunderstands it. There is a bit of extra insight that I'mgoing to share with you. So hopefully, I'm going toget my hand slapped for this, but we'll see what happens. When it comes to the endof our release cycle, so as we were finishingthe creators update, there is a need to test whatare called the Inbox apps. So, the version of the app that is actuallygoing to show up in install with the RTM versionof the creators update. So we needed to keep a poolof users with the Inbox apps. And this is whereyour frustration came in, and it was the Fast Ringthat was chosen to keep those Inbox apps at that point rather than it being Slow Ring orpotentially Released Previews. And Release Previews obviously, because they were stillon the anniversary update, hadn't receivedthe creator's update Build, it wasn't really the appropriateRing to use that for. So, the selection had comedown to Fast and Slow. The teams discussed,they chose Fast. We got your feedback and were making the adjustmentmoving forward. So obviously, we'll do a big announce once we getthe ideas hammered out, and once you get youthe updates made. As of right now, outside our RTM for the creator's update, not anything new we'reworking on right now. We're in a completelynew development cycle. So, don't get aheadof me there Adam. >> Adam Jason. >> I know, right? I know, right? We're nowhere near RTM, neardevelopment cycle. We just launchedthe fourth Build. We're just getting going. The full year development yet to come onthis new release cycle. So from thatperspective, like I said, we'll get thingsironed out on our side, and we'll make some announcementsonce ready to go there. You should be gettingthe preview app Builds in both Ringscurrently, I do believe. >> It is definitely next week. >> Yeah. And thenonce we move forward, we go to what wouldbe the Inbox version, because just like the OS stops taking major updatesat some point, and it's calledFeature Complete, then it works intoonly bugs fixes after that, the same thing withthe version of the app that will show up in a RTM Build. It will reach FeatureComplete for the app. They'll work onthe last minute bugs they need to fix, andthat version of the app, and then that's what willactually be packaged into the RTM update that getsreleased to all the folks in the release preview Ringas well as globally to all of the folks who don't participate in them whenit's inside our program. >> And despite popular belief, it is important for us to get coverage on the app versionsthat are in the OS. >> Yeah. >> Because there area lot of people in certain countriesthat they don't have access to a lotof online stuff. And they're bandwidthis very precious. And so some of these folksthey they don't want to spend their bandwidthdownloading the tons of app updates from the Store. So that means that Skype and the Mail and Counterapp and the Photos app, all those apps need to workgreat for them out of box. >> Yeah. >> Because their bandwidthare so precious. And so, I know there'sa lot of debate about that. It's easy for us incountries where there's a lot of ample bandwidth to kind of not really thinkthat's the case. But there are places whereit's super important. >> Absolutely true. I don't think I havemuch else to add on top of that since it's spot on. And like I mentioned,when you're doing the bug fixes at the endof a release cycle, it's super importantto make sure that you don't break anything else. If you're on preview appBuilds from the next app cycle, it doesn't do much goodto make sure that we didn't break the current versionof an inbox app it is going to shift in the RTMBuild out to retail so that's where that comes in. Last but not least,Hardware Application Diversity. This is a super huge topicfor me, personally, and I'm going togive a shout out to a couple of folks for something that we foundat the Creators Update. I might end up doinga big write up about this, but I think both of them are potentiallywatching the stream, so I wanted to givethem a quick shout out. There were two insiders thatping me earlier this year, while we were still workingon the Creators Update. So, in essence, back in January, and then I foundthe second user in February. Each of them was reportingnot being able to install any Build 15002 or greater. So, every time they install Build it would fail andwould just draw them back and it wasjust these two users and it was really hard topinpoint because when you have one personreporting an issue. It's like, "Okay, what's happening on thisperson's machine?" As opposed to whenI have 10, 20, 30 or even more peoplereporting about it, right? When it's one personreporting something, it can be superdifficult to dig into. >> Usually, whenthe flight goes out, the first thing we do is like, "Is it just one person reporting something or shouldwe correlate. Are there peoplewho bring it across Twitter and tried it? How big is the scale shipthat's going to impact? >> These two folks may win. Yes, that's Tony. Sorry. I hope your momuse her real name. Tony, thank you for showing up. Tony is one of the two folks that was involved in the scenario that I'mtalking about here. So, they reportedthis particular issue, and so I put it togetherinto a Twitter Chat, because their symptomssounded very similar. And it turns out they were runningthe exact same machine. When users here in the US, when user Tony is over Canada, and we just happened to be same HP but justdifferent model number, and it turns out I had one has eight gigs of RAM, theother was 12 gigs of RAM. So, we started digging through this particular issueand yes, rest to NZ. Yes, it's a systemPTE misuse. It is that bug. We started digginginto the issue and none of the feedbackthat was filed from your machine wouldgive us what we needed. Come to find out the machine was failing at thekernel level when it was trying to boot andinstall the new OS. It was failing at that level so there wereno locks coming back. It was just emptybecause there's no tracing coming on at that low-levelinstance of the OS. So, started working with Kernel team andthe deployment team here, and through trial anderror, some WebLink sharing, and a bunch of backand forth and a ton of education on my side because I've never donekernel debugging before, I got to set up and we starteddoing kernel debugging, and if we connect and then fail and we wouldn'tget what we needed. So, it was proof that therewas something happening at the kernel level but itwas happening so far down, that even a kernel debugger wasn't grantingit appropriately. So, at that point, itwas time to break out the big guns and we had- it's called the base team it's wherethe kernel codes live. We had them reachout straight to HP and we pulled itfolks from HP both here in the US as well as someof their engineers from Taiwan and we packed as much information aswe could over to them, machine information, BiOSinformation, chipset drivers, graphics card data, and so that I don't keep runningon and on about the story, like come to find out it was a BiOS farmer and memoryset that was being allocated and written and was supposed to belocked because it was actually interacting ata super low-level in the kernel, which there'ssome details I can't talk about until it gets fixed. It was being overwritten.So, there were some data that was supposedto be helping memory that wasn't beingheld in memory and so when the OS would go to check and then start writingthe new OS, it would fail. If it wasn't forthese two users who had reported it andhappening to connect, in fact they weregetting the same issue, we wouldn't havefound out about this. It would have been, itwould have looked like two separate one userinstances that were just filed in feedbackor on Twitter. Any other scenario potentially sharing our answers or Reddit. It really does sometimes take a human interactingin the middle to try and connect the dots. So, come to find outthere weren't a lot of insiders that we know of running this particularhardware set. But once you get out globally, we don't have tons of data on retail users right becausewe don't get as much imagery back from retail as we do from insiders who are flighting. Let's just say there'sa lot of people in the world that arerunning this hardware. HP shares some information on sales numbers andthings like that so we can hardly guesstimate on how many users were affected by this. Unless yousay, it was a lot. So, we had two insiders representing a small pool of insiders usingthe same type of hardware, but these two insiders report in the issue hittingthe smaller pool of insiders who represent a gigantic chunkof users globally. It would have hit thisin the retail space. Because of the effortof them reporting this and giving these tous enough digging in and reallychasing through this, we found something that wasgoing to hit a whole lot of folks and put them in ina really bad scenario. And you can imagineif we pushed this out and all these folkshad gotten this, they would have failed updates so they would bewasting their bandwidth. They've been wasting their timeto install the Build. And not only that, I mean I thatwe've been creating a terrible experience for them, when, "Hey, if your Buildsare not installing. What are we going to do? You're going to reachout try to get support. They would have either beencontacting Microsoft Support or potentially HP Support to try to figure outwhat's going on here. So, as a result of all these, we were able to puta block in place so that, as the creatorsof data is rolling out to all theseretail customers, the users with theseparticular machines will be offered to Builduntil we get it fixed. HP is actually workingon the fix currently. These two insiders are superawesome I can't thank them enough for everything they've done in the past four months. I actually have worked withHP and I'm going to get the BiOS from them and actually these two insiders are going to get the test the fix first. They will bethe first two people outside of HP andMicrosoft to get their hands on this and it's all because they were insiders, took the time to report this, and that theyspent their time to work with us to getthrough this issue. It's a little wayof us saying thanks, and hopefully the fix works and we can getthese particular machines up and running with thatBiOS is released broadly but don't go out to the HP Support System Software, which comes pre-installed in all the HP laptops and desktops. And then once the userstake the update, then don't getthe Creators Update. It's kind of a good news story. Like I said, we'll do a muchbigger write up on this, share as more detailsin the upcoming weeks, but yet it'sjust an awesome example of what you all, as insiders, can do when combined with us here on the engineering sideof us listening to you, you taking the timeto talk with us, and then workingtogether to reason and count through these issues because some bugsare easy to fix, and other bugs like thisare not easy to fix at all. I told you this wholestory for a reason. One was to share an awesome success story ofthe insider program itself, but to the topic itself at had its hardwareapplication version. So, one of the thingsthat I want to focus on with you, as insiders, but broadly asnew insiders come into the program is that exact thing is diversity ofthe hardware being used, and diversity ofapplications being used. I'll use myself as an example. At home, like many of you, I have a home built machine, and we put together the machine. This is my first PC built. So, at home, I don't havea standard Dell machine, or a standard HP, or any other OEM out there.I have a home-built. It's got an MSImotherboard in it. It's got an AMDchipset in it so I don't represent retail users all that well froma hardware perspective. From an OS perspective, sure, I'm right on the the samepreview Build that you all are. But how the preview Buildfunctions on my system, is it a good representationof how it's going to function on my mom's machine? She happens to have a HP laptop. So, from that perspective, I'm not doing a serviceto that regard. And then from anapplication perspective, the apps that I useon my machine on a daily basis are definitely different thanwhat my mom would be using, or potentially any ofyour family members. It's probably different thanwhat you use on any basis. So, I use the web browser.I'm using Excel, I'm using Word, I'm usingPowerPoint, I'm using a lot. Obviously, my work machineI use a lot of corporate apps that wehave here internally, but I don't necessarily play games like to the same extent thatmany of the insiders do. There's a bunch of regional apps like Weibo and QQ that aresuper popular in China, but I don't use here in the US. Again, I'm usingmyself as an example. No doubt, the same thingexists between the US and you knowcountries in Europe and countries in Asia andin countries like India and Australia and we havefolks here from New Zealand. So, it's localand regional apps. If you know there'sthings that you use, you may be one ofthose people that is 10 or 15 insiders thathappen to be using a particular app ora particular piece of hardware. And like Donna has said before, there's the millions thatrepresent the billions, is the insiders that are representing the restof the world. Without even knowingit, you may be one of these users that's representing a very small number of peopleon the insider population, but you're representinga huge number of people globally and youdon't even know it. And we don't know ituntil we find out. So from that perspective, if there is an application that is super near anddear to your heart, and it's not working right, make sure you to pop an email. Make sure you take the timeto share this information. And if it happens tobe a regional app say, "Hey," put a special columnin the feedback saying, "Hey, this is something that'ssuper popular in my location," be it in the US or Canada or India or wherever. Make that note. One of the things that we cando is as we start doing, testing and automatedtesting as it jumps through the internal rings before it even goes to insiders, we can potentially implement additional testsand we catch some of these super popular apps thatwe may not catch otherwise. Let me check onthe comments real quick. Make sure I'm notmissing anything related to this conversation. I love seeing people fromall over the world tuning in. Like, you guys rock. Like, that's one of the beautiful thingsabout the Insider, is seeing the numberof people from around the world that read our tweets, and read the blog posts, and take time out of your day to come and spendyour afternoon, evening, or daytime,or nighttime, or wherever you're at andcome and Chat with us. And listen to us talk, and hopefully spendthe time to Chat back with us. So, awesome. Will Edge be unbundledfrom the OS so it can be updated more frequently?Good question. That's a questionfor the Edge team. One of the thingsthat- let me segue way from here for a moment. At the beginning of the webcast, one of the things thatI was talking about doing in our monthly seriesis having guest speakers. So, one of the thingsthat I really, really want to do is have owners from different areas of the product, letsuse Edge as an example. If next month Ican get folks from the Edge team to comein and represent, I would like them totalk about their product. The plans for their product, current bugs, currentissues they're facing, to take your feedback. That's one ofthe things that I would like this webcast series to spin into is to goa little bit deeper into different areas ofthe operating system or particular apps that come from Microsoft to answer some ofthe questions that you have. Yes Raphael, one ofthe Insiders with the firmware bug,yes, he is here. Are there any otherquestions like that? All right. So, with that, we've got about 10 minutes left. Hopefully that's enough time.Let me open it up for Q&A. This is going to be strictly off of the chatwindow, obviously. Let me ask folks herein the room real quick. Did I miss anything that any of you potentiallywanted to cover today? I know I've beenkind of rambling on for nearly an hour and a half with a little break of excitement fora Build launch, which I don't want to add tothe relaunch of other Build, so let me close that real quick. Have I missed anything andyou potentially want to cover? >> I think it'sbeen pretty good. >> Great. Okay. >> Yeah. I mean, we'regetting goals out. Decided to getpeople trying out. >> You've got to skipout on the chaos of- >> The release. >> -Build stuff. >> Okay. >> Hey all. Has the Build installed yet? How's it going? >> Oh my goodness. >> People are reporting progress on installing the new Build- >> So, there'spretty much one word coming acrossthe Chat stream right now. Okay. Okay. So those of you who continue typing mobileagain and again and again, your point is well landed. Okay. Simmer down. Simmer down. You have my attention. Mobileis still getting built. It might be adifferently named branch but we're stillreleasing mobile Builds. Mobile isn't dead. I mean, if it was dead we wouldn'tbe releasing anything for it. I don't havea great way to answer your questions just fromthe simple perspective of, hey, we're releasing Builds.There's more stuff coming. As we make progresswith those Builds, we'll keep fixing bugs. When feature shows up, they'll be announcedin the blog post. We haven't abandoned it. I mean, like I said before, if we had abandoned mobile, you wouldn't begetting Builds on it. There would be no devices on this new developmentcycle at all. I mean, it wouldn't beworth the effort to keep creating Builds and keepsharing them out to Insiders. That arm of the entire program wouldn't be alive ifmobile was truly dead. >> Another word came through. >> Say what? >> You've got another wordis coming through now. >> So RS3. I mean, RS3 is just the code nameinternally for a series of Builds that we're working on ina dev cycle right now. Just because they'redifferent branches it doesn't mean anything crazy. >> Trying to tie whatwe name branches and how we number our Buildsto imply anything with regards toproduct strategy doesn't work. We could easily namea branch white and red. >> I mean we hadFBL Impressive in the past. We had FBL Awesome. >> Awesome. >> Yeah. We've hadsome crazy branch names. So it's just Future 2 is just the branch thatmobile is in currently. I mean, that's really all it is. It's just the name of a branch. >> Our branch name is not indicative of just whatthe product strategy is. Yeah. Mobile isalive and kicking. >> We could have called it Feature Awesome and itwould still be the same thing. It's just a branch name. I don't have a betterexplanation than that. I doubt that that's going to satisfy the curiositythat some of you have, but honestly that's the answer. It's just the name of the mobile branch that the Builds are comingfrom currently. Are we going to have FBL Ninja Cat? Thatwould be awesome though. Flash streaming fromOne Drive for Groove. Oh, hey. I can take that andshare that back to the Groove team. Thatwould be interesting. >> Somebody made a OneNote of all the questions asked so far. >> Oh, sweet.Dang Tony. All right. Tony, tweet me that link.Where is Donna? What's Gripe Integrate withBeam? The ETA for My People. Wow. This is going to be super helpful because I can- wow. >> Donna is inSan Diego with Carmen. No? You didn't watchCarmen Sandiego? >> Where in the worldis Carmen Sandiego? >> Oh yeah. Totallywatched that as a kid. When will new features show up? That's completely dependent on the teams working on things. There is no set cadence. Like that My People featureshowing up now, it's just because theygot checked in early. >> New features areshowing up already. >> Yeah. Like, there'sliterally no cadence on that. It's, when a teamhas something ready, it is stable, and it'sready to check in, that's when a team will do that. It will show up and then, once it gets proventhrough the internal rings, it'll show up in a flight. Literally just like the My People feature thatshowed up in desktop too. >> And the thing is,to stress a little bit, it's that your teamsare going to start checking features early. And their feature, likeMy People, is not complete. And so, it may seem basic now but integrationswith other things, like someone had askedabout Beam integration with My People orTwitter or whatever. The team is working really hard on doingsome cool stuff with My People. You know for someone,I deal with people like my dad down in Oregon, and having him onmy taskbar to engage with, to send files to, to e-mail, to Chat with, it's pretty cool. And so the team, they'reworking really hard to kind of finish and fleshout the feature. So don't judge the feature yet. And that will be the same for many other featuresthat will get checked in that won't be entirelyfinished when you see them. So just keep thatin mind as you're looking at stuff and as featuresare starting to show up. >> You have understand mostof the people assume soon. >> Soon trademark. >> Yes. >> And Jason, your post are being publishedfor your Beam update. >> Awesome. Oh, okay.Actually, you know what? Somebody asked in Chatif we're going to have specific shout outs onIoT stuff in flights. >> That is a good question. That's actuallya great question. Donna and I have beentalking a lot about IoT. I'm excited about tinkeringwith doing this 10 IoT stuff. We're talking tothe IoT guys and we do think that thereis an opportunity to integratetheir stuff into ours. And so, I i don'thave anything specific to share but we're reallytalking about that. I think it would begreat if we could integrate their stuff into ours. So, I would loveto hear more from Insiders who are in to IoTand have done any projects. Donna and I would bothlove to see some of it. >> I have to do the leakwork real quick, okay. Is it still showing? >> It's showing you now. >> Okay, good.Okay. So I sent out the link for the- Brandon, can you spec me the linkto the blog post so I can update the account you're on? >> I did. >> I'm working on it right now. Okay. So I'm actually goingto do this real quick. >> I just told people toreach out to you on Twitter. >> Fantastic. They know where to find me. >> Browser open. And Iapologize ladies and gentlemen, I am working on fixingthe AKA link that I just shared. It's probably still routingto the to the Insider page. I'm working on fixingthat right now. So, it will take just a minute. So keep your questions coming. As soon as I finish this Iwill be right back to them. >> It's wide. >> And edit on URLs. That is it. Next page. Okay. That should save. It'll take a minuteor two to propagate. And then that shortURL that I sent out will be ready to go. And then you can check out the full write up that Idid on The Beam Machine. >> Somebody is wonderingif there's a better way to say thank you fromthe post's feedback. >> We get thanks all the time. I mean, it'sextremely gratifying. I can't tell you how awesome it is to when people come to us and arelike, hey, thanks. It may seem likea simple gesture, but it's. >> We have a generale-mails about it. >> Yeah. It'sa rewarding feeling to get feedback from folks. Good or bad, right? Constructive or you know. >> I know. >> I don't know. >> The feelgood stuff too, right? >> Yeah. It's constructive. It's okay to be criticized. It's okay to tell ussomething is not right, but like, do somethingin a constructive way. Coming to us andsaying, this sucks. This suck so badly.That's not constructive. That doesn't tellus why it sucks. And so like, we're not afraidto hear the bad and ugly. It's just thatour expectation is that there's some level ofrespect from our people too. >> Yeah. >> You know we have feelings. >> It can make Brandoncry in his OneZ. >> Thanks. We shouldgive a shout out to Britney and the FriscoTexas store at Microsoft store. They are watching our webcastin their stores, so. >> What's up Frisco?How you doing? >> Hopefully, they'restill watching. They were watchingabout 51 minutes ago. >> Okay. Well, if they'restill watching, awesome. If not, sorry we missedyour Chat comments. But representing nonetheless. Yeah, I mean, there's really, you could send feedback back or you could just catch us online, like drop us a note atTwitter, Windows Insider. If there's one of us individually you wantto say something to, I had our handles at thebeginning of the presentation, I can flip back to that. >> And all ofour handles were also, well not, all ofthem, didn't have to. But the blog post todayhave a lot of our handles, our team handles.Since today's flight. >> Let's see,that shift flipping over on the presentation. >> With that being said, I have to go toa doctors appointment. So. >> All right, man. >> Have fun? >> Well, it'sdoctor's appointment. No. >> Have fun driving there. >> Yeah. So, sorry I had to flip back other on the slides but, like I said, if you everwant to reach out to us, just add us up. Like, you know how youget a hold of this. There's answer'sforum. You could send thanks fromthe feedback hub. Or you can just reachus individually here. And then don't forget,Jeremiah Marble, he's @JeremiahMarble on Twitter. Donna Sarkar is @DonaSarkar. I'm sure you probablyknow that from all of her awesometweets that go out. But I will give a shoutout to Tony, number one, because he was one ofthe HP guys who were up to just, to dig in to the Kernel issue,but number two, for the list of questionsthat he has helped compile from all ofyou on the webcast because I've spent more talking and less timereading this time around. But I will say thank you. We'll go through, look atthe questions and answer. I don't know if how I'll beable to answer all of them. Some may beconfidential type stuff. I haven't seen the full list. But I promise you, Iwill work through them and find a way to getanswers out to you guys, even if it's just on Twitter. If I have to createan answers forum thread and post answers in there,I will do what I can. Certainly could get lost inthe Chat. Yeah, of course. Let me flip over tomy web browser real quick. And I'll check here.The Beam Machine blog. The Beam Machine,there you go. That is the link to the newThe Beam Machine blog. Let me see if it'sactually working now. Yes. And it is working. Okay. So that link isactive and ready to go. And so I do know there was a request earlier forus to run through and show The Beam Machine once again for those of youthat either tuned in late or have not seen iton Twitter or what not. You can actually seethe Build images in that link. But if you want to seethe machine in action, I will show one more timebefore we close up for the day. So I'm going tograb the web cam. Sorry. We're going to have a shaky moment herereal quick but. Set that around. All right. This, again, isThe Beam Machine. >> I'll turn off the light. >> Yeah, if you can go. So we're going to turn offthe lights, so it's a little bit better and easierto see in here. And I'm going to minimize this so I can actually watch andsee what I'm showing you all. That RGB RAM is awesome. I love it. Change in colors. And as you can see, the LEDs in the machine are changing colors. It's way cooler in my office because I have superdark lighting in there. >> We're not sitting inthe dark. Just for you, guys. >> Yeah. Right now, you're getting a bunch oflike reflected light from outside fromthe conference room. But, as you can see, the LED fans that arein the Thermaltake case, you can see the reflection of all the LED strip lighting that is inside the case itself. You can see the logos on the motherboard areactually changing color. Here's the MSI logo tucked away. You can see the LEDs behind the motherboard.They're actually integrated. Those little dots back there are integrated intothe motherboard. And then, of course, as you've been ableto see the whole time, the RGB RAM, which is just like one ofthe coolest things ever. Interesting enough,even when you power the machine offor put it to sleep, the brand keeps changing colors. So people walkingby my office even after I've powered it offand gone on for the day, people have said 'I stopped at your office andwas just watching the RAM sit there and do the rainbow dropdown colors.It looks like the matrix. It's kind of funny.' And then, although we dohave a water cooling setup, this particular case supports the big radiator.There's the power supply. So efficient. Thefan's not even working. And we've been broadcastingthis entire time. The fan has not kicked on the power supply. That'show cool it stays. That's how efficient it is. And then just onemore quick around. Drive base. Wedon't actually have any disk drivesin here currently, because we just use USBs for everything onthe backside of the case. All right. Nothing too crazy. The top, that's the keyboard and mouseplugs for what we're using. The mesh dust panel. And then you can actually see the radiator for the liquidcooling setup in there. Just kind of awesome. And then a quick view around the back,in case you're interested. We have thumb drive withsome files on there. And then just your base. And then one of the really cool thingsis, does it show? Can you? I can't see the screenfrom here. Can you see the VR ready on that USB port? >> Yes. >> So that's super awesome is where I wastalking earlier about trying to future proofthis machine for when VR becomes the thing. Well, this motherboard and processor will definitely handle that when the time comes. We don't have toupgrade that part. It would just bea graphics card change for VR. So, again, then we'vegot a little bit over. We got starteda little bit late. So, let's just callit make up time. So, send us some feedback. Let me flip to the slide. As I mentioned atthe beginning and as you can see on this slide, if you want I can flipto that one real quick. Tell us what you want tosee in future webcasts. Right? I know we've covered, The Beam Machine was kind ofthe highlight today because this was the first one. Sowe're going to get in here. But if there's product featuresthat you want to see, if there's special guestyou want to see on here, which Ryzen I use in the 1800X. Let us know what youwant to see. I will go through some ofthe comments after the fact. Definitely, if youcan, send us tweets. Tell us, hey, Iwant to see this in your future webcastor drop us something. If somebody wantsto start a thread on the answer's forums that says Future Webcast Request,just post in there. Like any of you canstart that thread. I'll let somebody get going with that. We'd love tohear your feedback. And if there's anything about today's presentationthat you like, that you didn't like, again, feel free toshow that as well. As it could be constructive,but let us know. Because if there's something we can do better,we'd love to do it. So, I will reviewthe OneNote of questions. I will answer as manyof those as I can. >> Maybe next time, we cando a proper people's demo. >> Yeah. We'll do a betterpeople demo the next time around rather than me tryingto set it up midstream. Like I said, these arecompletely unscripted other than having a basic agendaof things I want to cover. Just because it's waymore fun that way. So, until next time. Thank you all for tuning in. Thank you all forbeing Insiders. And as Donna alwayssays, keep hustling.