Geography is maps, and rivers, and 
mountains. But, it’s more than that.  
Geography is cities and cultures and 
people. But it’s more than that too.  
Geography is finding patterns and connections 
between places and seemingly unrelated processes,  
digging deeper into the stories behind facts, 
and asking “why is this happening here?”
Hi, I’m Alizé Carrère and welcome 
to Crash Course Geography! 
I’m so excited to embark with you on this 
journey around the world to explore the  
ins and outs of everything above and below the 
surface of the Earth over the next year. To me,  
geography is about understanding 
the dynamic relationship between  
us humans and the incredible 
place we get to call our home.
It’s an inquisitive, close-up look at how we shape 
the land and how in turn the land shapes us. Like  
where and how we choose to produce our food, 
move our goods, and build our economies -- and  
what happens when natural or human-caused 
forces change or disrupt entire ecosystems.
My own research has taken me to the 
far corners of the Earth to explore,  
study, and document these types of issues.
In the Middle East I spent time looking at  
electronic waste disposal and the impact it 
has on water, livestock, and human health.
As a National Geographic Explorer, I 
traveled to Madagascar to study how  
farmers are adapting their agricultural 
practices to cope with severe erosion,  
and to Bangladesh to study how people are adapting 
to sea level rise by building floating gardens.
As a documentary filmmaker, I trekked through 
the Himalayas to learn firsthand how communities  
live with the consequences of glacial melt, then 
through the muddy backwaters of the Mississippi  
River to understand the fate of the most prolific 
invasive fish species in the United States.
And one of the most amazing things I’ve learned 
while traveling across such distant and diverse  
locations is how remarkably connected 
we are to each other and our planet. 
I’ve seen how our individual and 
collective actions affect the systems  
and landscapes around us -- whether 
it’s a swift change at the local level  
or a slow-moving shift over an entire hemisphere.
Geography teaches us about the profound 
interconnectedness of the world.
Traditionally, geography is split 
into two tightly intertwined parts.  
So we’ll begin our time together studying 
physical geography or the processes and  
phenomena of the physical world both 
above and below the Earth’s surface.
We’ll ask lots of questions like, why is 
the seafloor so young when the Earth is  
so old? Or try to identify why winds and 
ocean currents are so important to life  
on Earth. Or explain why the Aral 
sea in Central Asia has been called  
“one of the worst environmental 
disasters in modern history.”
Halfway through, we’ll turn our focus to 
human geography and explore the ways people  
occupy the Earth’s surface. Like how we’ve moved, 
settled, and used the land, resources and space.
So we’ll look at how languages migrate and 
change, like how the Bantu language spread  
throughout Africa. Or how humans interact with 
their environment, like how for centuries people  
have relied on the seasonal monsoon rains in India 
to bring life-giving moisture to their crops.
But there’s not a clear line 
dividing the physical and the human,  
which is where geography gets its strength. 
Because, really, geography is telling the story  
of the Earth. Even something as commonplace 
as a banana has a complicated backstory that  
twists across continents and climates and turns 
betweens vast trade networks and political coups.
We’ll get to all that and more, and in the end 
well...we’ll probably still have questions.  
I hope you’ll join me on this journey as we 
unravel the tale in Crash Course Geography.
Crash Course Geography is made with 
the help of all these nice people!  
If you’d like to help keep Crash Course free, for 
everyone, forever, please consider supporting us  
on Patreon, and if you’d like to keep learning 
from this course click the playlist below.
