Welcome to the North Pacific Garbage Patch, the largest human trash dump in the world.
Spreading across the Pacific Ocean, the North Pacific Garbage Patch is really more of a
series of trash vortices and is the top vacation destination for plastic, chemical sludge,
and wood pulp. 
Defining its size is difficult because it’s
always moving and it’s mostly a soup of
tiny microplastics, not an island of grocery
bags and drinking straws. But some scientists
estimate it’s approximately 700,000 km2, which is roughly the size of Texas.,
Actually, it’s one of five giant collections of trash circulating in oceans all over the Earth. 
If you’ve spent time on beaches, you might’ve noticed plastic trash like water bottles and
toys, but there's so much almost invisible junk too, like small beads or tiny slivers.
Each beach around the world has this plastic pollution because of how trash moves from
inland to the ocean, and then gets caught in ocean currents. 
Whether you live on a coast or not, everyone is connected to the global ocean currents
circulating tremendous amounts of energy…and trash. 
I’m Alizé Carrère and this is Crash Course Geography.
Intro
Somehow trash can show up on a beach in California from a pod of trash 2500 nautical miles away
east of Hawaii. That’s so far for one speck of plastic or even a whole water bottle [-- with
or without the secret message --] to travel. To get there, it all starts with the wind. 
In our last episode, we explored how the horizontal movement of air, called wind, moves in predictable
directions and creates the general patterns for global circulation. In the oceans, we
call the horizontal movement of water an ocean current. 
Like the winds, ocean currents are basically rivers of energy moving in a persistent and
predictable direction. And also like the winds, ocean currents are driven by differences in
density and pressure. 
In the air, density and pressure changes come from differences in the amount of insolation,
or incoming solar radiation, that different parts of the atmosphere receive. 
And ocean water is heated by insolation too. Because of how much direct sunlight it gets,
water closer to the equator absorbs more heat energy than water at higher latitudes. 
This creates density differences within the ocean, because -- just like air -- warm water
is less dense than cold water. Basically when heated, molecules like to spread out. Water
density is also affected by salinity, or the salt content of the water. Saltier water is
more dense than less salty water, because there are more molecules of salt and water
hanging around.
Warmer water in the ocean expands just like air, but because it can’t expand sideways
-- because ya know, there’s already water there -- it expands up, elevating the surface
just slightly, like a hill. And colder or
saltier water contracts, lowering the surface
into a depression. So the ocean’s surface isn’t perfectly flat. It contains sea surface
height anomalies. 
A “hill” of water exerts extra pressure
compared to a dip in the sea surface height.
And in general, whatever’s in a high pressure
area -- whether it’s air or water or a student
in a stressful class -- wants to move to the low pressure area. So these pressure gradients
force the water to flow around the globe.
Technically it's all the same water, but separate
currents are defined because they consistently
move in the same way, kind of like different
highways of water.
There are actually at least 30 major named
surface currents and dozens more smaller currents
transporting ocean water around the globe.
So if our trash found its way to the right
spot, it could travel the world!
We can draw lots of comparisons between ocean
currents and wind patterns, but surface currents
are also driven by strong and steady streams
of wind. Energy is transferred from the winds
to the water through friction as air blows
across the surface.
For example, the winds that result from subtropical
high pressure areas around 30 degrees latitude
also help create the ocean currents that circulate
there in patterns called gyres. 
But even though ocean currents generally follow
the winds, the two aren’t mirror images.
Ocean currents come up against huge roadblocks
that air blows right over: continents and
large land masses. 
These roadblocks give currents irregular shapes,
especially in places like the Indian Ocean,
the Arctic Ocean, and the Northern Atlantic
Ocean where there’s lots of land. 
Currents are also curved by the Coriolis Effect,
like all fluids on the Earth’s surface.
Remember the Earth is rotating fastest at
the equator and slower as we move towards
the poles. So if something that’s not directly
connected to land moves north or south, the
change in momentum causes its path to bend. 
The Coriolis effect can actually deflect some
surface currents, depending on where they
are on the globe. Like, as currents move away
from the equator, the Coriolis effect gets
stronger because the Earth’s rotational
speed rapidly slows down, and can break up
currents into chains of lots of circular vortices,
or eddies. These get smaller the closer you
are to the poles as the Coriolis effect bends
the currents ever more tightly. 
Then as the Earth rotates faster as we move
towards the equator, the Coriolis effect gets
weakest until it’s basically nonexistent
exactly at the equator. So equatorial currents
aren’t deflected right or left -- water
can simply flow in a straight direction pushed
by the winds. 
So if we look at the circulation map, most
of the surface currents making up gyers don’t
cross the equator but flow along it horizontally.
Then it’s the combined forces of winds and
the Coriolis effect that causes gyres to flow
in a clockwise direction in the Northern Hemisphere
and a counterclockwise direction in the Southern
Hemisphere. 
But let’s go back to the idea that ocean
currents not only run into stuff like land,
they can also carry more stuff than wind.
Maybe they're a highway for eel migration,
or they play a role in a water bottle's journey from a store shelf to the North Pacific Garbage Patch. 
At some point, this bottle got snagged in
the North Pacific Gyre, which is really four
currents that follow how the air moves around
the northern subtropical high pressure area.
To imagine its journey, let’s go to the
Thought Bubble.
Let's say our water bottle fell into a municipal
storm drain in Hawaii that got flushed into
the Pacific Ocean. 
Starting at the equator, the trade winds drive water west in a flow called the Equatorial Current.
This carries our water bottle to the eastern coastline of Asia, where warm waters pile
up against the land.
So the warm, energy-rich waters are deflected toward the North Pole, pushed by both pressure
gradients and the Coriolis effect that balance each other out.
They flow into the Kuroshio Current moving north along the Asian East Coast, where our
bottle could wave at the Philippines and Japan...you know, if water bottles had arms.
As it reaches the latitude of the westerly
winds around 35 degrees north, the current
begins to wobble more, and along with our bottle, is pushed eastward and separates from the coast.
This forms the North Pacific Current, bringing
warm waters to the southern coast of Alaska. 
And then, land ho! Eventually our bottle encounters
the West Coast of North America and is deflected
back towards the equator, moving from British Columbia, Canada, to the Baja Peninsula in Mexico. 
This California Current is cold, having released
the warmth that the water was holding in the
Equatorial and Kuroshio currents. 
If the bottle manages to stay in the gyre, it could float on through those warm and cold
currents for years, traveling through clear moonlit nights and rough typhoons. 
Because our bottle is a processed plastic,
bacteria don't eat away at it.
But wind, waves, and sunlight have broken
it down into microscopic particles, so all
that's left is a bead that ends up floating
in the North Pacific Garbage Patch. 
Thanks, Thought Bubble. Wind-current interactions
are actually much more complicated than just
winds “pushing” water around, and it’s
an area oceanographers are still trying to understand.
For geographers, we’re concerned with how
stuff gets moved around the globe. There are
actually five major gyres in the world, including this North Pacific Gyre, each with its own garbage patch.
And they all follow similar patterns with warm currents bringing warmth and humidity
to the continental east coasts, and cold currents moderating temperatures and having a drying
effect on the west coasts. 
Ocean circulation in the Southern Hemisphere is similar except that the gyres flow in a
counterclockwise direction. And because there’s very little land poleward of 40 degrees south,
the Antarctic Circumpolar Current or West Wind Drift circles around Antarctica as a
cold current almost without interruption or directly interacting with the warm equatorial waters.
Surface currents generally move warm waters poleward and cold waters towards the equator,
so they're important regional air temperature regulators in addition to moving anything
that happens to be in the ocean, from schools of fish to bits of plastic! 
But surface currents don't make up all of the horizontal motion of the ocean. To see
the rest, we have to go deep into the ocean. 
Deep currents travel at slower speeds beneath
the surface currents. They move ocean waters
both horizontally across the floors of the
world’s oceans, but also vertically from
the ocean floor to the bottom of surface currents
as part of Earth’s thermohaline circulation. 
Just like surface currents, deep currents
flow from high pressure to low pressure. Even
at these crushing depths, slight pressure
and density differences are also caused by
temperature and salinity changes.
For example, the more salt content the surface
water has, the more dense it is, the more
likely it will sink as it reaches the poles.
In some places, that water will sink up to
2000 meters to where deep currents flow. A complete circuit of a deep current may take
up to 1000 years. 
Even still, deep currents are critical to
the movement of nutrients around the world.
Many fisheries, for example, depend on cyclical upwelling of nutrient-rich water moving from
deep currents into local surface currents. 
While nutrients released through decomposition
near the ocean floor are pulled up by upwelling,
oxygen cycles down from the surface to the
deep, which keeps those decomposers and other
deep-sea organisms supplied with oxygen for
respiration.
So the broad global circulation of deep currents
is like a vast conveyor belt of ocean water
that brings warmth from the equator to the
poles, nutrients from the floor to the surface,
and oxygen from the surface to the floor. 
Marine habitats near upwellings only cover
about 1% of Earth’s oceans, but account
for up to 50% of the global fish harvest.
At least a billion people rely on fish for
their primary protein, so deep ocean circulation
not only moves energy around the globe, but
also helps create the conditions that feed
a large part of the world. 
Higher up, dominant winds and surface currents
have helped move people around the globe for
thousands of years. 
With the movement of ships, has come the movement
of people and the things they deem most important.
We can understand the material culture of
a people by the marine debris they create. 
Some of that trash will get swept into regional
surface currents like gyres, but some will
get caught by smaller local currents and wash
up on shore without traveling the world.
Like there have been outbreaks of whole toys
washing up on beaches, from rubber ducks to
LEGO dragons to Garfield phones. What do all
these things have in common? Well, like you've
probably intuited, marine debris in the 21st
century is mostly plastic. 
There are 8 million metric tons of plastic
bits and debris we don’t know the origin
of, or nonpoint source pollution, that’s
estimated to be in the oceans, but there’s
also bigger garbage out there too. 
Take that whole LEGO dragon -- it didn't travel
far. It came from a wrecked shipping container
that fell into the ocean after a huge once-in-a-100-years
wave hit the cargo ship that was carrying it.
In fact, there are thousands of shipping containers
each year that fall off cargo ships due to
rough weather or other mishaps. This map shows
the movement of the 50,000 ships each day
moving goods around the globe.
Some estimates say 90% of global trade involves
container ships crossing the oceans. 
But as ships move, they’re emitting air
pollution that rides on global air circulation
currents through the atmosphere, or dropping
stuff that contributes to ocean pollution. 
These types of pollution can’t be linked
to a particular ship because air and water
cross political boundaries. 
In fact, those plastic beads and dragons on
the beach represent how we're all connected
by the global circulation of air and water…
and how garbage patches won’t clean themselves. 
Our global economies depend on the circulation
of goods moved by ships, and local economies
depend on the circulation of nutrients that
create rich fisheries, all of which leverage
the dependability of ocean currents. 
So who is responsible for cleaning international
waters, and how do we balance our societal
needs with protecting the planet? There aren’t
easy answers, and there might be rough seas
ahead. In fact, I see some clouds on the horizon... 
Thanks for watching this episode of Crash
Course Geography which was made with the help
of all of these nice people . If you want
to help keep all Crash Course free for everyone,
forever, you can join our community on Patreon. 
